COUNTERSPELLS  

Barrier of Naach-Tith  
PP Cost: 10  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: 10 minutes  
Range: Medium  
Target: Sphere 10 ft in diameter / level  
Duration: Hour / level  
Magic attack roll: See text  
Prereq: Greater Warding, Ward by Will, MAB +5  
Mighty Spell  
 
This spell creates an invisible barrier of magical force that provides both physical and magical 
protection. Sorcerer attempting to cast a spell through the barrier, at either direction, must succeed 
in magic attack roll against DC set by the magic attack roll rolled by the caster when creating the 
barrier. If the sorcerer fails, his spell is dispelled and he loses power points without any benefit. A 
creature can only pass through the barrier if it can succeed in DC40 Strength check. It is possible to 
destroy the barrier with physical attacks - it has 200 hit points and Hardness 10. Creatures bisected 
by the barrier when it is cast are pushed outside it. 

Eibon's Wheel of Mist  
PP Cost: 8 + 1 PP / minute  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Personal  
Area: One 5-foot square per three levels  
Duration: 10 minutes, plus one minute per extra PP spent  
Prereq: Incantation of Amalric Witchman  
Focus: Bronze disc inscribed with ancient runes  
Mighty Spell  
 
Laying down a specially inscribed, small bronze disk at his feet, the sorcerer chants aloud ancient 
words meant to deter assaults by the servants of the Great Old Ones. A cylinder of swirling mist 
appears around the caster. Everyone and everything within the mist is completely invisible and 
undetectable by any means to Outsiders and creatures with Corruption 10+. Such creatures are 
unaware of the mist. If it is directly in their path, they will move around it or turn back without 
knowing why.  
 
Other creatures can see the mist and move through it normally. They still can not see through it, 
unless they have blindsight. Creatures within the area of effect at the time of casting can see through 
the mist. If someone leaves the mist, attacks out of the mist or otherwise interacts with the world 
outside the area of effect, the spell ends, its charm broken.

Elder Sign  
PP Cost: 3 or 20 (see text)  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Full-round action  
Range: Touch  
Target: Any opening, doorway, wall, floor or magical gate  
Duration: Round / level or Mortal  
Prereq: Incantation of Amalric Witchman  
 
There are signs and marks that have great power and the oldest of them all holds even the Great Old 
Ones, their hideous gods and their servants at bay. This curious pentagram-like symbol prevents any 
and all Great Old Ones, Outer Gods and their servants at passing over, by or through it. Drawn on 
floor of a corridor it prevents such creatures from passing over it or etched in a stone door forbids 
them from opening it.  
 
The symbol can be drawn as a part of the spell - using chalk, scratches on wood, lines in dust or 
even blood smeared on stone - but since such attempts are easy to destroy, the sign is usually made 
ahead of time as a leaden seal, etched in rock or forged in steel. This spell can activate any such 
sign whether it was created by the caster or not. The Elder Sign can either be activated temporarily 
with the cost of 3 PPs or for the duration of a lifetime for 20 PPs. Inactivated Signs will be shunned 
by mindless creatures unless they are forced through them, but intelligent horrors will soon realize 
them to be naught but drawings and pass over them.  
 
Despite its power, the Elder Sign can not to be used for personal protection. Drawing it on ones 
chest in the hopes of warding off blows by hideous creatures will only result on the unfortunate fool 
being ripped apart, with only the piece of skin with the Elder Sign left intact. Likewise, there are 
many monstrous beings, such as ghouls, that are not directly connected to elder horrors and are thus 
unaffected by such Signs. Many a sorcerer has done a fatal mistake by being overconfident about 
the protective powers of such symbols.

Eye of Light and Darkness, Lesser  
PP Cost: 12  
Components: V,S,F,M  
Casting time: One hour  
Range: Touch  
Area: 20 ft per caster level  
Duration: Mortal  
Saving throw: Will partial  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Greater Warding, MAB +5  
Material component: Blood of an innocent  
Focus: Two eyes carved in stone or other hard material  
Mighty Spell  
 
Preparations for casting this spell require creation of two sigils in the shape of an eye in a very hard 
substance, such as granite or steel. They are often hidden within faces of statues. The sigils must be 
placed in a line from each other, no more than 20 ft apart per caster level. As the ritual is cast under 
a full moon, they are smeared with blood of an innocent (someone with no Corruption). The 
forming line between the two sigils becomes a painful barrier for agents and servants of the forces 
from beyond.  
 
Any Undead, Outsider or any creature with Corruption 10+ must make a Will save to pass between 
the two sigils. Whether the creature succeeds or not, it immediately takes one point of Wisdom 
drain and loses one Power Point if it has any. Failing the save means that the creature is unable to 
pass through the barrier. Those drained to Wisdom 0 by this barrier are destroyed. Any creature 
with any Corruption points feels intensively uncomfortable when passing through the line, receiving 
penalty equal to its Corruption score at all rolls for ten minutes. During this time, the mental effects 
of Corruption cease temporarily, perhaps allowing a Corrupted sorcerer realise the depths of his 
wickedness and repent.  
 
Eye of Light and Darkness, Greater  
PP Cost: 30 + 1 permanent  
Components: V,S,F,M  
Casting time: Four hours  
Range: Touch  
Area: One mile radius per level  
Duration: Mortal  
Saving throw: Will partial  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Eye of Light and Darkness, Lesser  
Material component: Blood of an innocent  
Focus: A great sigil in the shape of an eye  
Mighty Spell  
 
Eye-like sigil must be worked in a very hard material for this spell to work. It must then be place at 
least 10 feet above the ground. Casting of the spell must be timed four hours before the moonrise, 
the chanting reaching its highest point as the moon rises. The blood of an innocent (someone with 
no Corruption) is then used to fill the pupil of the eye. The sorcerer then gives the eye one of his 
Basic Power Points, forever losing one BPP and granting the eye its great power.  
 
The complete eye fills the area of effect with invisible energy that smites agents and servants of fell 
powers mercilessly. Undead, Outsiders and creatures with Corruption 10+ need to make a Will save 
to enter the area of effect. Every failed attempt to enter and every hour spent within the area causes 
one point of Wisdom drain to such beings. They as well lose one Power Point if they have any. 
Those drained to Wisdom 0 by this barrier are destroyed. Further, all spells that create undead, 
summon demons or in any way call or contact other creatures from beyond are automatically 
dispelled. Casters of such spells lose Power Points normally, but produce no effect. Creatures with 
Manifest ability are unable to use it in the area of effect.  
 
Beings with any Corruption score feel severely weakened within the area of effect, receiving 
penalty equal to their Corruption at all rolls. Like with the lesser eye, during this time, the mental 
effects of Corruption cease temporarily, giving time for painful memories and guilt to emerge. The 
effect of this spell does not penetrate more than 20 feet of rock or other dense materials. Thus deep 
caverns are not subject to the effect of the eye if it is placed on the surface - nor surface subject to 
an eye placed deep underground.
 
Warding the Eye  
PP Cost: 4  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Ten minutes  
Range: Personal  
Duration: Till next sunrise  
Prereq: Warding, MAB +3  
 
After a low chant lasting ten minutes, the caster feels his vision turn hazy and a new confidence 
bolster his spirit. This ancient ward makes the caster completely immune to all spells with Evil Eye 
as their range. The effect stays active to the next sunrise. If the sorcerer has made the ward only one 
hour before the sun rises, the spell will stay active only for that one hour.

Words That Unweave  
PP Cost: 2  
Components: V  
Casting time: Full-round action  
Range: Close  
Target: Supernaturally disguised beings in the area of effect  
Duration: Instant  
Saving throw: Will negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Warding  
 
Chanting aloud an ancient phrase known to men since the dawn of time, the sorcerer attempts to 
unmask magically disguised creatures in the area. If such beings happen to be within the area of 
effect, they must immediately make a Will save. If they fail, their disguise is broken and their true 
form revealed to all. This spell tries to break all supernatural and spell-like conditions that change 
appearance of a creature, as well as all spells with a similar effect. If a creature under the effect of 
such power succeeds in his save, the caster has no way of knowing that a disguised being remains in 
the area.

CURSES  
 
Black Mark of the Damned  
PP Cost: 10  
Components: V,S,M  
Casting time: One hour  
Range: Magical link  
Target: One creature  
Duration: Mortal  
Saving throw: Will negates  
Magic Attack Roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Greater Ill-Fortune, Demonic Pact or Master-words and Signs  
Material component: Magical link to the target, spices and incenses worth at least 250 sp  
 
After drawing a diagram attractive to creatures from the Outer Dark on the floor, the caster throws 
magical link to his intended victim on it. He then chants summons to the creatures of Hell and 
undeath, drawing them to his target while burning the link together with incense. A victim branded 
by the Black Mark will glow to Outsiders and Undead like a beacon, drawing them to him. All 
Undead, Outsiders and creatures with 10+ points of Corruption will become aware of his presence 
and exact location within 200 ft from him. This effect works even through walls and other 
obstacles. Mindless undead and other unintelligent creatures will be drawn towards the cursed 
person. Intelligent creatures feel no such compulsion, but may decide to go to investigate the call 
they feel in their minds if they are so inclined.

Dread Curse of Azathoth  
PP Cost: 12  
Components: V  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Close  
Target: One creature  
Saving throw: Will negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Greater Ill-Fortune, Corruption 5+  
 
Simply uttering the Secret Name of Azathoth, including the terrible Last Syllable, can have 
horrendous power in the mortal world. Directed at a target, it permanently drains 1d4 points from 
all abilities with failed Will save. If uttered aloud, with no particular target, at those who serve the 
Great Old Ones and their masters, it will gain their attention, fear and respect, giving the sorcerer 
+8 circumstance bonus to Intimidate and Diplomacy with such creatures. It may as well be enough 
to stop certain eldritch creatures from attacking the sorcerer and become willing to parlay. Uttering 
the Dread Curse in places where the borders between different worlds are weak may have strange 
and potentially lethal consequences.

Piercing of the Flesh  
PP Cost: 2  
Components: V,S,F  
Casting time: Full-round action  
Range: Evil Eye or Magical Link  
Target: One living creature  
Duration: Instant  
Saving throw: Fort halves  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Fort save  
Prereq: Ill-Fortune  
Focus: A carefully decorated ritual dagger worth at least 100 sp  
 
A spell for the truly determined or the insane, Piercing of the Flesh allows the caster to inflict harm 
upon himself to cause greater grief upon his foe. While chanting dark invocations, the sorcerer 
plunges the ritual dagger in to his own flesh, cutting deep. He immediately receives 1d6 Con 
damage. If the target fails in his Fort save, he receives the same amount of Con damage multiplied 
by two, feeling the blade stab in his internal organs. If he succeeds, he receives same amount of 
damage as the caster.

DIVINATION  
 
Candle Communication  
PP Cost: 2 PP, plus 1 PP / minute  
Components: V,S,M  
Casting time: One minute  
Range: 50 miles per scholar level  
Duration: One minute, plus one minute per extra PP spent  
Prereq: Astrological prediction or Shamanic Ecstasy, Visions  
Material component: A candle  
 
Chanting quietly while staring at flame of the candle, the sorcerer may send his voice to another 
candle under the effect of a similar spell. Two sorcerers casting the spell at the same time within 
range of each other may discuss through the candle as if they were in the same room. Only the 
caster will hear the voice emanating from the candle. While the spell is in effect, flame of the candle 
burns sickly green. The candle is consumed unnaturally fast while the spell is active and burns out 
at the end of the spell, leaving behind naught but a pool of molten wax.

Keenness of Two Alike  
PP Cost: 6  
Components: V,S,F  
Casting time: Hour  
Range: Touch  
Duration: Hour per level  
Prereq: Astrological Prediction or Shamanic Ecstasy  
Focus: Close relative at hand  
 
This ritual spell heightens mental clarity, concentration and the ability to divine the truth for the 
caster. It requires the caster to have a blood relative at hand and engage in with him or her in an 
inappropriate ritual of some length. If both relatives know the spell, they can cast it at once, using 
each other as the focus for their own spells. Conclusions understood or perceived during the spell's 
effect are remembered when the spell ends, though the derivations of such conclusions may become 
mysterious.  
 
The spell bestows the caster +6 circumstance bonus on Alchemy, Concentration, Decipher Script 
and all trained Knowledge skills. It as well gives him +2 circumstance bonus at magic attack rolls 
for all Divination spells. If the caster and the focus are identical twins, all bonuses are doubled.

Sending of Dreams  
PP Cost: 12  
Components: V,S,M,F  
Casting time: One hour  
Range: Magical link  
Target: One living creature (that needs sleep)  
Saving throw: Will negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Dreams of Wisdom  
Material component: Herbs worth 100 Sp  
Focus: Strange bowl made of "the copper from above", a meteoric metal.  
 
While burning hallucinogenic herbs in the strange bowl, the caster whispers in to flames what he 
intends for the target of his spell to dream about. This can be a description of a scene to see, a 
message to hear or something else. If the caster is very Corrupted (8+), he can make the target see 
so vile nightmares filled with the Great Old Ones and other horrors that the target must make a 
Terror check upon waking up. If he fails, he will be wracked by terrible dread for at least hour after 
awakening and must roll another Will save at same DC. If the second one fails as well, he will be 
struck by a Minor Insanity - most often Insomnia.

HYPNOTISM  
 
Behold the Yellow Sign  
PP Cost: 4  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Close + Evil Eye (see text)  
Target: One intelligent creature per two levels  
Duration: Round / two levels  
Saving throw: Will negates, Fort negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Fort and Will saves  
Prereq: Entrance, caster has made the Unspeakable Oath  
 
This foul spell is only revealed to those favored by the Unspeakable One and his deranged priests. 
Casting the spell immediately grants the sorcerer one point of Corruption without a save, as the 
power of the Unspeakable One courses through him. With a waving of his arms and a devilish 
chant, the caster creates an illusion of a whirling, pulsating symbol of pure madness in the air. 
Those within Evil Eye range of the spot where the symbol is cast must immediately make two 
saves. Those failing their Will saves are stunned for one round, transfixed to staring at the symbol. 
Those who fail their Fort saves receive 2d6 points of damage, as their skin appears to rot. These 
saves must be made every round by the characters that start within Evil Eye range of the symbol. 
The caster is immune to his symbol, but not to symbols created by other casters. The symbol can be 
averted or avoided like all Evil Eye spells and gaze attacks.  
 
If a victim caught in the area fails three Will saves in a row, he falls on the ground, unconscious for 
an hour. During this time he sees terrible nightmares and receives one point of Wisdom drain. If the 
character has no prior Corruption, he must immediately make a Corruption save at same DC as the 
spell. This spell only works when Aldebaran is above the horizon.

Consume Likeness  
PP Cost: 15  
Components: V,S,M  
Casting time: One day  
Range: Self  
Target: One humanoid corpse  
Duration: Mortal  
Prereq: Illusion  
Material component: Corpse of the likeness consumed  
Mighty Spell  
 
By spending one day casting a foul ritual upon a fresh corpse, the caster may assume the living 
likeness of the person. During the course of the spell, he must destroy the corpse of the original 
victim. How this is done is up to the caster, but usually involves consuming parts of the cadaver. 
Once the spell is complete, the caster may take on the appearance of the victim at will for as long as 
is desired. Transformation includes voice and scent of the victim. The shadow of the caster stays as 
his original form. Similarly, he gains no abilities or skills of the victim. Stolen likeness reacts to 
damage and other effects in a realistic manner, but does not age with passing years as it should. The 
caster may consume several likenesses and change his shape between them as he wishes.  
 
Changing appearance to one of the consumed shapes takes one minute and consumes 6 PP. 
Returning from a stolen likeness in to the original one is a full-round action that requires no PP. The 
original form must be reverted to before another can be assumed. Upon taking damage, the sorcerer 
must immediately make a Concentration check which DC is 10 + damage received. If he fails, he 
reverts to his original form as his next action against his will. If the sorcerer is in consumed likeness 
while his power points drop to zero or below, he will likewise immediately revert to his original 
form.  
 
Many sorcerers who keep one stolen appearance on them for long periods of time develop a 
Delusion that they are actually the person whose identity they have stolen.

Curse of the Putrid Husk  
PP Cost: 4  
Components: V,S,F  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Evil Eye or Touch  
Target: One intelligent living creature  
Duration: Round / level  
Saving throw: Will partial  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Entrance, Hypnotic Suggestion  
Focus: Leprosy or similar rotting disease affecting the caster  
 
Revealing the extent of own rotting flesh, the caster makes his victim to believe that his flesh starts 
to undergo similar changes. The target vividly sees and feels his skin rotting away and his internal 
organs melting in to a mush. Those who fail their Will save fall prone and become helpless. The 
experience is so horrible that the victim must later make Will save vs insanity at same DC as the 
spell. Even those who succeed in their save temporarily feel its effects and are stunned for one 
round. This spell counts as a fear effect.

Sekhmenkephep's Words  
PP Cost: 16  
Components: V  
Casting time: 10 minutes  
Range: Close  
Target: One intelligent creature / level  
Saving throw: Will negates  
Duration: One day per five levels  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Hypnotic Suggestion, Mass  
 
Speaking passionately and with great skill in words, the sorcerer weaves in to his speech magical, 
enthralling tones. A number of targets that can understand the language the character uses will be 
convinced that the things the caster says are absolutely true. Perform (Oratory) check DC 20 is 
required to keep the audience interested in what the sorcerer has to say for the whole duration of the 
casting time.  
 
Those who become enthralled by the spell are not under control of the sorcerer. They can not be 
ordered to do anything against their will. For example, the sorcerer can't make local peasants to 
burn down a nearby house. However, he can convince them to allow him to burn down the house or 
make them think that it would be in their best interest to destroy it. Effect of the passionate speech 
fades away in a few days. Unless the course of thought suggested by the spell was very implausible 
for the persons fallen under its effect, they will most likely never realize that they were hypnotically 
influenced.

Song of the Unspeakable One  
PP Cost: 5  
Components: V  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Close  
Target: One living creature per three levels  
Duration: Concentration  
Saving throw: Fort halves  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Fort save  
Prereq: Torment, has made the Unspeakable Oath  
 
The sorcerer opens his mouth and lets forth a wailing moan that follows melodies unknown to men. 
The caster must make Perform (singing) check at DC 15 or the spell fails. If it fails, the power 
points are lost without further effect. If the check succeeds, flesh of the chosen targets begins to 
bubble and fester as if trying to dance following the strange song. Each target receives 4d6 of 
damage that ignores DR. Those who succeed in their saves receive only half. The effect counts as 
continuous damage in regards to Concentration checks and spellcasting. If two or more songs are 
sung in the same area, they negate each other, resulting in no effect other than a screaming 
cacophony of voices. This spell only works when Aldebaran is above the horizon.

IMMORTALITY  
 
Like Father, Like Son  
PP Cost: 50  
Components: V,S,M,F  
Casting time: One day  
Range: Self  
Saving throw: Will negates, see text  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Will save  
Prereq: Witch's Vigor  
Material component: Rare herbs and incenses worth 5,000 SP  
Focus: Glass from Leng  
Mighty Spell  
 
This foul ritual allows the sorcerer to arrange for himself a new chance at life in the future at the 
cost of his offspring. If all goes well for the caster, he will be reincarnated as his own descendant 
after his death, possessing the body of his own bloodline. Casting the ritual requires large amount of 
exotic herbs that are mixed in effigies representing family ties. They are burned in middle of a 
pentagram while chanting terrible vows to dark powers. Focus of the ritual must be a piece of weird 
green glass from the plateau of Leng, where time and space twist and collide in strange ways.  
 
After the caster dies, the dreadful magic taints his bloodline. His children, grandchildren and so 
forth born after his death will be suspect to the spell, having nightmares that offer glimpses to the 
dead sorcerers past for their entire lives. The sorcerer may decide during casting if he wishes to try 
to possess only certain gender or not. He may as well set the amount of years to pass after his death 
before the spell activates - it may be as little as one year or as much as millenias. Once the set 
amount of years has passed and a child of right gender is born to descendants of the sorcerer, the 
process of reincarnation begins. Upon reaching an age set by the caster - often 18, 20 or the like - 
the offspring must make a Will save upon his birthday. If he fails, the nightmares intensify and 
during the following two weeks, he will become permanently possessed by the dead sorcerer. If the 
save is successful, the curse continues on to the next descendant and so forth, until some of them 
fails his save.  
 
The possessed body will retain its original physical ability scores. All other ability scores, all skill 
ranks and all other capabilities will be replaced by those of the dead sorcerer. There is no way to 
revert this change. If the sorcerer had physical signs of Corruption before his death, these signs will 
slowly become apparent during the following year. The reborn sorcerer will gain no knowledge 
whatsoever from the body of the unfortunate descendant he takes over. As such, he may be very 
much out of place if he has reincarnated far to the future. Experiencing death has its price and the 
caster returns with one Major Insanity with no save. If the sorcerers bloodline is snuffed out before 
the spell activates or a descendant fails his save, the spell ceases and the sorcerer is forever lost in 
whatever hell he had hidden his soul.  
 
Transfer Body Part  
PP Cost: 30  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Ten minutes  
Range: Touch  
Target: One humanoid  
Saving throw: Fort negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Fort save  
Prereq: Witch's Vigor  
 
This foul spell allows the sorcerer to replace a lost or damaged organ, limb or other part of body 
with one taken from another person. The "donor" needs not to be willing for the operation to work. 
After the chanting and invoking has gone on for ten minutes, the sorcerer unceremoniously plucks 
out the body part in question, rips off the old one if there is one remaining and replaces it with the 
new one. The caster may as well give the taken body part to another person present through the 
whole casting of the spell. Some especially deranged sorcerers use this type of magic to "improve" 
themselves with body parts from random victims. This is most likely the only known way to heal 
lost limbs, blindness and other permanent afflictions.

NATURE  
 
Touch of Yig  
PP Cost: 4  
Components: S,F  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Touch  
Target: One living creature  
Saving throw: Fort negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Fort save  
Prereq: Summon Beast  
Focus: A snake painted or tattooed upon arm of the caster  
 
Closing his fist to resemble snout of a serpent, the sorcerer waves his decorated arm like a striking 
cobra and quickly touches his target with his fingertips. The victim is struck as if bitten by the 
serpent painted or tattooed upon his arm. Magic attack roll sets DC for the poison - damage of the 
bite and effects of the poison act as if bitten by a small snake of the same type.

NECROMANCY  

Black Binding  
PP Cost: 2 / HD + 1 for duration, see text  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: One hour  
Range: Close  
Target: One corpse  
Duration: Mortal or until dismissed by the caster  
Prereq: Raise Corpse, MAB +3  
 
After a lengthy ritual, the sorcerer bestows unholy mockery of life upon one corpse of his choosing. 
In the process he ties small part of his own power in the Risen Dead, fueling its unnatural existence. 
The Risen Dead thus created can be given command consisting of one sentence, such as "Guard this 
area from everyone except me" or "Mine this vein of gold". After the command has been given, the 
creature will start its task immediately. Giving new commands is not possible after the initial 
casting of the ritual. The Risen Dead stays active until it is physically destroyed or the sorcerer 
dismisses it with a full-round action. Every active Black Binding reduces the casters BPP by one. If 
the created undead is destroyed or dismissed, the sorcerer recovers PP left as its driving force 
normally.

Bring Pestilence  
PP Cost: 5  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Touch or Magical Link  
Target: One living creature  
Duration: Mortal  
Saving throw: Fort negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Fort save  
Prereq: Raise Corpse, Death Touch, MAB +6  
 
Invoking foul powers from beyond, the sorcerer inflicts disease of his choosing upon the victim. 
The disease strikes immediately, without incubation period, as the spell is cast. Thereafter effects of 
the disease repeat every day at the moment the spell was first released. The disease will disappear as 
quickly as it appeared if the target can resist it for three days - succeeding three times in a row in the 
Fortitude save will cause the effect to cease.  
 
Eyes of the Dead  
PP Cost: 6  
Components: V,S,M  
Casting time: 30 minutes  
Range: Magical Link  
Target: Self and one corpse or a Risen Dead  
Duration: 30 minutes, plus ten minutes per extra PP  
Prereq: Raise Corpse, Visions  
Material component: Incense and herbs worth 50 sp  
 
While calling upon dark powers, the sorcerers concentrates on thinking a corpse or a Risen Dead 
whose eyesight he wishes to steal. Eyes of the corpse switch places with eyes of the sorcerer. The 
caster sees as if looking through eyes of the corpse of his choosing - he can't turn the head, but can 
open and close the eyelids and move the eyes as if they were his own. Appearance of the eyes turns 
to the color and shape of the casters. While the spell is active, his body is helpless and motionless. 
This spell carries a great risk - if his eyes now temporarily placed upon the corpse are pierced with a 
dagger or otherwise damaged, he will be blinded permanently.

Red Sign of Shudde M'ell  
PP Cost: 12  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Full-round action  
Range: Close  
Target: One living creature per level  
Duration: Concentration  
Prereq: Raise Corpse  
 
Shouting commanding words with an inhuman voice, the caster scribes in to air a dull red symbol 
that glows dimly. When formed correctly, malevolent power of the sign causes those near it to die 
horribly, their internal organs and blood vessels convulsing uncontrollably. Each round, targets 
within the area of effect, as chosen by the caster, take 2d10 points of damage that ignores DR. The 
caster must stay immobile next to the sign and concentrate. He takes each round half the damage 
delivered to targets of the spell due to his proximity to the malevolent sign, unless he is undead. The 
Red Sign is almost sentiently malevolent and barely controllable by the sorcerer. When it is cast, the 
caster must always select one living creature per level to be targeted if there are enough in the area 
of effect - even if some of them are his allies.
 
Withering  
PP Cost: 3  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Close  
Target: One living creature  
Duration: Round / level  
Saving throw: Fort negates  
Magic Attack Roll: Sets DC for Fort save  
Prereq: Lesser Ill-Fortune, Raise Corpse, MAB +2  
 
Invoking eldritch powers, the caster points his hand claw-like at the unfortunate victim, choosing 
one limb as his target. The limb withers, turning grey and powerless as if robbed of its life-force. 
Held items are dropped on the ground. In the case of legs, the characters fall prone and can only 
move by crawling. Creatures with more than two legs take -2 Dex penalty and -5 ft movement 
penalty for the duration of spell, if they have more than half of their legs remaining.  
 
Wrack  
PP Cost: 4  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Close  
Target: One living creature  
Duration: Round / level  
Saving throw: Fort negates  
Magic attack roll: Sets DC for Fort save  
Prereq: Greater Ill-Fortune, Raise Corpse, MAB +3  
 
By making an ancient gesture in the air and cursing his enemy aloud, the sorcerer causes his body to 
twist in unendurable pain. The victim falls prone and helpless, unable to do anything but moan in 
great pain. He is blinded by red haze of the torment. After the primary torment ends, he will still 
suffer from distracting pain for 3d10 minutes, giving him -2 on all checks. The caster receives +8 
circumstance bonus on Intimidate against someone successfully targeted with the spell.  

PRESTIDIGITATION  
 
Parting Sands  
PP Cost: 8 + 2 per 5 ft  
Components: V,S,M  
Casting time: One minute  
Range: Touch  
Target: Nonliving obstacle  
Area: 5-foot square, plus one more per 2 extra PP spent  
Duration: Concentration  
Prereq: Burst Barrier  
Material component: Desert sand  
 
This ancient Stygian sorcery is used to part nonliving obstacles, such as walls, doors, rivers and so 
forth. The sorcerer spreads a line of sand across the target he wishes to part and chants silently 
while making parting motions with his hands. Obstacles, whether they are walls or rivers, are 
divided temporarily, allowing the sorcerer and others to pass. As the spell ends, the obstacle returns 
to its previous form, leaving no mark of the event. Obstacles such as rivers are counted as one 
object for the purpose of PP cost. For example, if the sorcerer wishes to walk across a river 50 feet 
wide, he needs to spend 8 + 8 PP to create a dry passage through it to the other side. If the sorcerer 
loses his Concentration while passing through the obstacle - such as failing a Concentration check 
due to receiving damage - the spell immediately ends. This can result in beings using the passage 
being crushed, drowned and otherwise horrible mutilated as the parted obstacle suddenly rushes 
back on them.

SUMMONINGS 

Free the Unspeakable One
PP Cost: 60 
Components: V,S,M,F  
Casting time: One week  
Area: Set by the focus, see text  
Duration: Permanent  
Prereq: Unspeakable Oath
Material component: 350 HD's worth of willing sacrifices that have all done the Unspeakable Oath
Focus: Nine stone monoliths or towers
Mighty Spell

This unholy ritual will allow the Unspeakable One to extend its influence on Earth to a far greater 
degree. Before the ritual can be cast, nine monoliths engraved with foul prayers to the vile god must 
be erected in a shape of a giant V. The area inside the V formed by the nine monoliths is then 
affected by this ritual - it may well be millions of square miles. Generally, greater area of effect 
requires the monoliths to be very high and massive. As the monoliths are complete, the ritual is 
ready to be cast. They must be located under the naked sky - building the monoliths or towers 
inside other buildings or underground would make them useless. At least 350 HD's worth of cultists 
must be ready to sacrifice themselves to the Unspeakable One, divided among the nine monoliths. 
Each must have a sacrifice worth at least 20 HD's, but otherwise they can be divided freely among 
the nine structures. The sorcerer prepares the Unspeakable One for the sacrifices by a terrible, 
hypnotic chant that lasts seven nights. At the final of the chant, the volunteers take their own lives, 
chanting in unison the secret name of the Unspeakable One. The ritual must be done while 
Aldebaran is above the horizon. 

If the ritual is successful, the Unspeakable One will be freed from limitations that control its 
influence upon the mortal world. Within the area surrounded by the nine monoliths, all spells 
connected to it can be cast day and night, whether Aldebaran is above horizon or not. Likewise all 
servants and slaves of the Unspeakable One can be summoned and exist on Earth throughout the 
year at the peak of their power. The Unspeakable One itself can be summoned physically on Earth 
within the area by a separate ritual and will be free to roam the lands between the monoliths 
unchecked. Corrupting mental influence of the vile creature will pour forth to the area of effect. 
Random violence, vile perversions, debauchery and cultural decadence will increase each year, 
while horrible nightmares torment the honorable till they give up to unholy desires stirred within 
their very souls. Leprosy and other rotting diseases will become more common. All Corruption 
saves will become harder to resists by +2 to DC, +5 if the Unspeakable One has been summoned 
physically in the area. Only areas protected by the (Greater) Eye of Light and Shadow will be 
unaffected. The Unspeakable One takes great pleasure in corrupting whole civilizations through its 
influence and even if called to manifest physically in the area, will prefer to let its degenerative 
presence destroy its victims from afar.   

Effects of the ritual will cease if one or more of the nine monoliths are destroyed. Creatures that 
could not exist on Earth without the ritual - mainly because it is not night and Aldebaran is not 
above the horizon - are immediately dismissed or destroyed without a save. If the lost monolith is 
replaced, the ritual can be cast again if other requirements are met. There is no need to create entire 
set of new monoliths for each casting of the ritual.       
 
Unspeakable Oath  
PP Cost: 2  
Components: V  
Casting time: Five minutes  
Target: Self or one willing, intelligent creature  
Duration: Permanent  
Prereq: Demonic Pact  
 
Perhaps the easiest pathway for great power and a horrible end, the Unspeakable Oath is a vow 
given to the Unspeakable One in exchange for raw power and destructive favors. The loathsome 
vow is chanted in a long-dead language. It can be cast for other, willing creatures as long as the 
caster has made the Oath himself before. Power granted by this simple, but hard to find ritual is 
great. The creature taking the Oath must make Will save DC 25 or receive one minor insanity. The 
Oath can be taken by anyone, even those actively opposed to the Unspeakable One. The price to be 
paid ensures that the Oath is always beneficial to its master, even when the boons granted are 
harmful to its other followers.  
 
The Oathsayer may either have one of his enemies hit by wrath of his new master (in practice, 
Death Comes on Swift Wings at DC 40 with Fort DC of the diseases in question increased by five) 
or ask for blessing of magical power. Those asking for power receive one BPP per year or when 
they reach next level, whichever comes sooner. First point of bonus power is received immediately. 
Other gifts are possible at the discretion of GM, though they should all be destructive and hideous 
in their outcome. For example, someone making the Oath to resurrect his dead wife would have his 
beloved come to haunt him as putrid, rotting corpse.  
 
However, few of those who make the pact realize its true price. The rest are simply too deranged or 
desperate to care. Price of the Oath is to give the Unspeakable One a gateway on the Earth through 
body of the Oathmaker. Taking the Oath causes the character to receive one point of Corruption 
thereafter at the same day he originally made the vow or when he goes up a level, whichever comes 
first. At Corruption score of 5, he will contract Leprosy without a save. As Corruption reaches 
levels where physical signs become apparent, the characters skin starts to take a sickly yellowish 
hue. Later small wounds seeping putrid puss appear around his body and animals react to his 
presence with fear or rage. As the character finally reaches Corruption score of 10 - or would die 
from the Leprosy, but not from any other cause - he turns in to a horrible beast under control of the 
Unspeakable One. Even if the unfortunate victim received most of his Corruption score from other 
sources than the yearly payment of the Oath, his fate will still be the same.  
 
Taking the Oath is truly permanent. If someone else casts the Oath for the character and he later 
proceeds to kill the original caster, it will not save him from his fate. Only intervention from some 
other similar power as the Unspeakable One may save him from his impending doom. Often the 
sources detailing the vow do their best to avoid revealing its true price.

WEATHER WITCHING  

Call the Fog Between the Worlds  
PP Cost: 8  
Components: V,S,M  
Casting time: Ten minutes  
Target: Existing fog  
Duration: Hour / level  
Prereq: Raise Night Fog, Demonic Pact or Master-words & Signs  
Material component: A dose of Black Lotus powder (worth 250 sp)  
Mighty Spell  
 
This spell can only be cast at night and in a foggy weather. Fog caused with the Raise Night Fog 
spell qualifies for this purpose. Chanting incantations that weaken the borders between the worlds, 
the caster lights the Black Lotus powder aflame and casts it about his feet. At once a feeling of 
something unnatural hiding in the mist becomes apparent and strange whispers can be heard. This 
spell calls forth the fog that separates worlds from each other, making summoning spells easier. The 
existing mist or fog in the area is converted in to something else by the spell. PP costs of spells that 
summon creatures are halved within the area of effect. While inside the fog, DC15 Listen check 
reveals whispers in strange, inhuman voices, always just out of reach, beckoning mortals to follow 
them. Those who follow these voices are never heard of again.
 
Raise Night Fog  
PP Cost: 6  
Components: V,S  
Casting time: Standard action  
Range: Medium  
Area: 40-ft. radius, 20 ft high per two levels  
Duration: Hour / level  
Prereq: Knot Wind  
 
This spell can only be cast at night. A bank of fog billows forth from the point the sorcerer 
designates. The fog obscures all mundane senses, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature 
within 5 feet has 20% miss chance due to concealment. Creatures farther have total concealment 
and the attacker can't use sight to locate the target. A moderate wind disperses the fog in 4 rounds; a 
strong wind disperses the fog in 1 round.  

